# imdb-analysis
Project Goals
To investigate relationships between several features of IMDB top 250 rated movies.

Features
Movie Names: The names of the top-rated movies on IMDb are listed in this column.
Ratings: The ratings column displays the IMDb ratings for each movie, indicating the average score given by users.
Count of Ratings: This column shows the total number of ratings submitted by users for each movie.
Genre: The genre in which the movie falls under
Release Date: The release date column specifies the date when each movie was officially released.
Country: The country column indicates the country of origin for each movie.
Budget: This column provides information about the estimated budget for producing each movie.
Domestic Gross: The domestic gross column displays the total earnings generated by each movie within its country of origin.
Domestic Weekend Gross: This column shows the earnings generated by each movie during its opening weekend within its country of origin, along with the date of the opening weekend.
Worldwide Gross: The worldwide gross column displays the total earnings generated by each movie globally, including earnings from all countries where it was released.

Challenges with the Dataset:
When looking at the genre feature, this was not a part of the initial dataset and was added by myself.
The genre is taken from the IMDB page for the movie, and one challenge is that many movies are given multiple genre tags.
In order to make the genre feature cleaner to work with I assigned each film a genre category based on the first listed tag on the movie's webpage.
Animated movies were given a tag entitled "Animation", I do not view animation as the genre of the movie but rather the medium and as such introduced a bias by taking the second listed tag for animated movies to decide their genre category.
Given all these factors some movies might have a genre category that is not expected or intuitive to the subject matter of the movie.

Another challenge is in the budget feature; for foreign films their budgets are in values other than US dollars (USD).
In order to assuage this issue and make the column more workable and easy to compare films, I searched for the exchange rates for the native currency to USD at the time of the films release.
While making this conversion helps make the values more comprable it still has an issue that the film costs are not incurred at the time of the film's release but rather over a long period of time beforehand. As such the budget values are not guaranteed to be accurate and as such the entire column is labeled as estimated.
In addition some movie budgets were unable to be found. Those rows were dropped when working with the dataset, the percentage of columns that had no budget value were low (18/250) so dropping them was done in confidence that the impact on the dataset would be minimal.

The domestic gross, weekend domestic gross, and worldwide gross features also had their own set of challenges.
Most movies over a certain age (if released before 1970) or released internationally do not have any values for the domestic gross or domestic gross weekend columns.
In addition those movies also tend to have outlier values, or no value at all for the worldwide gross column.
When investigating ways to remedy these missings values, one possible solution that came up was to research box office databases for the missing films and manually record those findings into the dataset.
Such research was unfruitful as the researched databases had no values for the initial releases. The next thought of solution was to use data for any films that were rereleased, however many films had no data for that either.
As such the choice was made to drop any rows with null values for the domestic gross and weekend gross columns. The percentage of films that met this criteria was relatively low (23/232) so dropping them was done in confidence that there would be a minimal impact on the dataset.


